WHAT IS THIS?

This is a modified version of the fancy beeper kernel module designed
to work with the Linux 3.x kernel for the Zipit Z2 handheld. Original
source code is from http://www.carcosa.net/jason/software/beep/

The fancy beeper kernel module is a device driver that allows you to 
replace the PC speaker beep with a userspace daemon that will perform
an action of your choice.  The main use of this is to play a sound file
in place of the system beep, but you can write a beeper daemon to do 
anything you want it to; there are several examples included which
play sound files via various means.

INSTALLATION

For installation instructions, please see the file INSTALL.  Please note
that this version of the fancy beeper, unlike previous versions does not
require patching your kernel, only building a loadable kernel module.

Once its installed, you can use one of the included beeper daemons, or 
write your own.  The included beeper daemons are:

beepd.py:   Plays sound file given as an argument via OSS
beepd_aplay: Plays sound file given as an argument via ALSA's aplay
             program; some extra stuff like init script included.
beepd_esd.py: Plays sound file given as an argument via ESD (requires
              pyesd module installed)
beepd_esdplay.py: Plays sound file given as argument via ESD by feeding
                  sound data to esdcat; no non-standard python modules
                  required
alsabeepd.py: Plays sound file using PyALSA; contributed by Lars Immisch.
beepd_esd.pl:   Similar to beepd_esdplay.py, but written in Perl by
                Frank Johnson <ratty at they.org>.

You should probably start your beeper daemon on login and kill it on
logout, so that it does not tie up the sound device for other users.

WRITING A BEEPER DAEMON

The beeper device is just a character device that can be read by your
daemon.  When there is a beep event pending, the daemon can read a
character from the device.  When there is no event pending, the read
blocks.  So a pseudocode version of the main part of a beeper daemon
looks like this:

while 1:
    beepdev.read(1)
    playsound()

Of course, in the real world you'll want error handling and such;
beepd.py is probably the simplest realistic beeper daemon.

CONTACT

Zipit Z2 related questions and comments to 
	mozzwald@mozzwald.com

Questions and comments about original sources to 
	jmcbray-beep@carcosa.net.
